Welcome everyone to Chart Fanatics, the
go-to channel for the most in-depth
strategy and concept breakdowns from the
very best verified traders in the world.
And to kick this off, there is none
other than the very best trader in the
prop firm space. And I would say
generally speaking too, I don't know if
you you'll take that, but I'll throw it
in there anyway, but he has the record
for the largest payout in prop film
history with a total in payouts of 2.3
over $2.3 million. And not only that,
just to top it off, if that wasn't good
enough, in December, he took
$130,000 to over $1.4 million in roughly
about a month. Absolutely incredible.
And you probably already know who it is.
It is the founder of the lab, Trader
Kane. Appreciate you, mate. What another
amazing intro. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's
you really went out all out there. So,
well, we're very excited, Kane, cuz this
is a new concept, something that we're
very proud of and I know that we're
going to, you know, really provide so
much value to the trading audience and
the and the community generally. And
we're going to go into your strategy
that basically you're using to achieve
those payouts, achieve the results.
Yeah. And uh where where should we
begin? I have a relatively basic
strategy. I I think from a high level
perspective, I always want to see price
rebalance into 50% of the range and then
continue with the trend, right? And I
built a model around that. The main
thing that I consistently talk about is
the daily and the hourly and H4 PO3. And
it's just I think we should really dig
into that today because I think that's
where a lot of people go wrong. They
really marry daily bias of I want to see
price trade here, but actually I'm more
of a I want to see price trade from here
to here. if price doesn't get to where I
want it to go and I don't engage and
I'll just trade the other way in the
coming days, weeks, months. Yeah, I
think we should should really really go
over that. So, let's go straight into it
then. Yeah. So, I think every single day
when I approach the chart, I I am
looking for price to I guess manipulate,
right? So, if we have if let's just say
the daily open is here and I I want to
see price trade higher to trade lower, I
have two options, right? I can either
wait for price to trade lower with my
draw being higher and then look for
various different things, right? A
change state delivery, an inversion. I'm
saying all of these words that everybody
is familiar with, right? But typically
what I look for is I look for this and
then a much higher range and then there
is around 50%. Obviously, this is wildly
inaccurate because 50% would be here,
but it doesn't look as great. What I'm
looking for is I'm looking for price to
trade into around 50%. And then trade
into 50% of this range because I don't
need a big move. I just need to grab
that base hit every single day and then
I'm done. I move on. And if, you know, I
take a couple of stabs at this and if
I'm wrong, I'm wrong. That's okay. I'm,
you know, I'm wrong sometimes and that's
that's fine. But I I really really tried
to instill into everybody that all I
need to do is wait for price to trade
into and we'll draw it out, right? Is
let's just say more recently, we'll use
recent price action. Price is tumbling.
Yeah. All I want to see is price trade
into 50% of the range here
and then 50% of this range. Yeah. And
all I want is this move right here
because at that point, even though the
trend is this is the trend, if this is
going to continue to great. If it's not,
it's most likely going to reverse from
here. Yeah. Yeah. So, all I need is this
move right here. I don't need to trade
from here to here because this is a
risky move. Yeah. you know, and I don't
need to try and grab this because this
is fighting the overall downtrend that
we're currently in. Yeah. Yeah. So, I
only need to do that. So, how do I do
that? Right. Um and and what do I look
for? Because obviously, it's all well
and good just saying I'm looking for 50%
of the range. And you're only trading
NASDAQ, right? Yeah, I'm only trading
NASDAQ. Obviously, I look at um I look
at uh the SP00 ES for for divergence,
but we'll get into that. Right. We can
take uh the price action of recent as as
a as a good example, right? Let's just
say the the daily chart looks like this,
right? Um
uh yeah. And then this one looks like
this. And then this is the daily open
that we're currently in. Right. All I
want to see is price either trade. And
this is obviously just a daily chart is
I want to see price trade into this high
which roughly is around 50% of the
range. Yeah. Right. So all I'm looking
for is I'm either looking for price to
trade below this low. Mhm. And I can
look to trade at some sort of reversal.
That is a lot of a much more risky trade
because it's fighting the overall trend.
Yeah. or I wait for price to manipulate
at a significant time point and then I'm
trading from here
to here. Yeah. Yeah. It's just this tiny
little move that I want. Why would I
look at it like we can just rub this
out? Yeah. So, this is the daily time
frame, right? Yeah. This is the daily
time frame. Sorry, you do the you do the
text. Okay. So what would I when I
approach the chart, I would always look
at the the daily candle forming with a
wick above this area. Okay? Right? If if
this is going to continue, typically we
continue from previous day highs, etc.,
etc., right? So I would always
anticipate that this daily candle is
going to form not like that. It's going
to form like this and it may end up
looking like that. it may go all the way
off the table, right? Are you
identifying fair value gap or is that
not really is that just an added
confluence and you're more focused on
the Yeah, I mean this is this would
definitely like if there's an imbalance
there in price, i.e. the delivery is so
one-sided, then yeah, I want to see the
delivery
rebalance 100%. It's the daily high,
right? I don't care if this wick comes
all the way down here and there's no
high here. I would still frame this as
my version of manipulation, right? We
manipulate above the the previous day
high. everybody that got short inside of
this move here. And forgive me, I do
speak quite bearish terms quite a lot
recently because I have been quite
bearish on the market. So, it's hard to
just suddenly speak more bullish. So,
everybody that got short in this this
candle from previous day that is
swinging that's swing trading etc etc.
When we get a daily close here, the one
thing they don't want to see is us
trading to this high. So, the amount of
orders that are being stopped at this
point. So, these would be your stop
losses here. Yeah. They would be my stop
losses. Yeah, that I'm that I'm
anticipating that are getting run.
Obviously, there are some days that this
just never happens, right?
And this wick looks like this and we
trade like that and that's fine. There
are obviously other confluences that I
look for in this area, but this is just
like you say the daily time frame right
now, right? I combine the daily time
frame with the the H4 and then from a
really from a like a very micro time
frame is the the H1 for where I want to
see all of those time frames align and
once they align we then obviously look
for entries
right yes and at that point so I'm
anticipating daily P3 H4 PO3 H1 P3 and
then I'm once these are triggered I'm
looking at this P3 would power of three.
So, accumulation accumulation,
manipulation, yeah, distribution. And
so, let's just let's just take this and
simplify this for a lot of people,
right? Because some people there's
multiple different ways that it's done.
Where's the the black pen? Hey guys,
just a very very quick one. If you're
enjoying this playbook and you want to
get it sent directly to you, make sure
to go on chart fanatics.com, put your
email in, and every episode we drop, we
will send you a direct PDF breaking down
this exact playbook. Or alternatively,
also the playbooks will be put all
together with the rules over on Trade
Zella. That is an incredible
collaboration. So, if you want to
actually add the playbook to your
Tradezella, make sure you go check that
out as well. But let's get back into
this episode. Okay. So, some people
support and resistance traders, some
people are range traders, etc., etc. So,
when when we get price typically trade
within a range like this, this is just a
low. This is just a high.
Typically, I'm I really subscribe to
market maker theory, right? So, at this
point is where 90% of people get trapped
and they're like, this is a retest of
the the trend of the range and we and we
take a long, right? That's that break
and retest. I don't I'm not a breakout
trader, so I would never ever look for
that. I would actually frame this as
some sort of manipulation back inside of
the the existing accumulation. Yeah. To
then where's the green pen? You got it.
There you go. And then I would look for
this to be distribution to there. Yeah.
So if we then
visualize that as
your
accumulation, this is distribution.
We got all the bends. That's it. And
this is manipulation, right? How can
I frame my daily candle within this
perspective? Yeah, I'm looking for the
manipulation to trade into an existing
high. So if we use the blue, this is the
opening price. So this is the daily
candle. At this point, this daily candle
looks like this. Yeah. Yeah. And I want
to I want to trade the wick of this
candle. Yeah. And then we fractalize
this, right? And the fractalizing just
means applying the logic to to a
different time frame. Yeah. Is we then
look for this on a
H4. Yeah. So around those, speaking EST
times here, around 6 10 typically 10 is
where I'm looking for. I'm looking for
10 a.m. to manipulate higher. Yeah. And
then trade lower. That's where if you're
looking at the H4, that's where you'll
notice some candles next to each other.
That's the range. And then that, as you
say, that 10 a.m. one, you want that
wick above, taking out those prior
wicks. That would be your taking out
those prior highs, those prior lows.
Yeah, that is my ver that's my
manipulation. So everybody will always
tell me 10 a.m. reversal doesn't work.
fine, then don't trade it. Um, but it's
typically the time frame that I like to
trade the most. So, that's where I'm
most active in the chart. 9 around 9:15
to around 11:30 EST because it has that
9:30 liquidity injection. So, it's most
volatile. You can grab a quick move. And
then at 10:00 a.m., it's most likely
going to manipulate above the previous
9h hour high. Yeah. Trade back into
around the 10 a.m. open. Statistically,
reverse. I believe it does. Some people
don't believe it. It doesn't. But
ultimately, by this logic, if I'm
trading here and this is the premium
discount that I want, I actually only
care for this move. I don't care about
this, right? I actually don't care if we
distribute. I just want to trade the
manipulation into the back into the
range because if it is going to
continue, I don't want to be caught in
it. And if I'm expecting bearish price,
I will just as soon as we sweep into
this, I will just trail my stop to break
just under break even so that I'm I'm
not losing any money due to fees, etc.,
etc. So, we fractalize that onto a H4,
we add in the H1 and when all of the
time frames do something like this and
they manipulate. Yeah. As soon as we get
that sweep, so say this is um so say
this is 9 p uh 900 a.m., sorry, not PM.
This
is 900 a.m. and this is where 10 a.m.
opens. Yeah, I want to see 10 a.m. open,
sweep above the high and once this
candle flips bearish, I don't want to
see it continue and and suddenly become
bullish again. So, at that point, this
would be my logical area to get break
even or whatever. And I would look for
some sort of reversal in and around this
area. Mhm. And again, we can get into
that in a minute around around actually
the entry model, but that we have charts
as well to go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We have
we have a bunch. Yeah. So, um and that
is typically what I I look for on a a
daily. Once that that daily profile
where I want to see price trade into is
hit, I will then do the exact same thing
on the H4. And typically when the H4 and
the H1 aligns around that 9:10 a.m. they
will typically both hit the same point
that I want it to go to and then I'll
wait for that breakdown. Obviously I'm
not just like oh we traded above the
high I'm short or I'm or we trade above
the below the low and I'm long
confirmation stacking those layers that
creates your high probable scenario.
Correct. Yeah. And that's what I'm
always waiting for. The reality of this
is that um I guess the pros of it are
once when it plays out typically this
move can be quite quick especially to
the downside and well actually and the
upside once it really hits that level
that we want. If you were looking at the
upside it would just be the exact same
just flipped. Yeah. We just turn the
chart around. Yeah. Literally we just
flip it the other way. Um and it would
just be going up. Like I said as of
recent times we have been gone down
quite a lot. I'm staying with the trend.
Like I said, I want to see price
redeliver into that equilibrium, that
50% of the range, what the premium
discount, you name it, whatever it is.
And then once we hit that, I want to see
it continue with the trend, wait for
that confirmation. The pros of that are
you can really catch like the highs and
lows of the day. Yes. And you know, you
can grab that move and it can be very
quick and you're in and out. The cons of
it are you are trading a reversal. It's
risky. Yeah. Right. You are trading
against current order flow. you are
waiting for confirmations, but
ultimately this is a riskier model,
which is why um for those that know me,
I I am very very fond of break even
trades. Like I love as soon as I'm in
this trade here, let's just say I'm
risking $1K, right? The moment that I
can claw this back is a win for me.
Yeah. Because in my head, I just lost
1K. And if I can get break even here and
I'm suddenly break even, I no longer am
down 1K in my head. And then if suddenly
I'm up 1K or I'm up 2K or I'm up 3K,
it's a win at that point. At this point,
I'm now in my head I'm up 1K, I'm
actually up 2K because I risk 1K, you
know. And that for me is the the real
differentiator
between a lot of people. A lot of people
only see the reward and don't focus on
the risk. I really emphasize the risk
and get break even when I'm like either
my intuition is like this doesn't look
good because that is also a real thing.
Um but also the model is like okay
hourly low 15-minute low we're now
reclaiming okay I don't want to see that
trade back into the open. don't want to
see that higher time frame candle flip
bullish after we trade after that candle
flips bearish and we take out the high
because statistically if it does I'm I'm
wrong right and that's just so
technically that this process of the P3
or the AMD is then almost canceled out
in a sense because the manipulation
didn't manipulate yeah most likely you
can then obviously look back and this is
just how how it works is like most
likely this is some sort of manipulation
you know like on a lower time frame I
don't really look for time frames lower
than this for the for the AMD. I always
just want to see, you know, from a from
a daily time frame, this is the wick.
From a H4 time frame, this is the wick.
And then an hourly time frame, this is
the wick. I use that to like section off
this area as me wanting to to get um to
get short in. So like I wait for that
daily level to hit. Great. I then wait
for the H4 level to hit and I wait for
the hourly level to hit. And this is the
area that I want to get short. In this
case, uh, if it gets to the 50% of the
range, that's your, you know, original
target. Yeah. What is it that you look
for, if ever, if in terms of holding
longer, is there anything in particular
or is it more so just momentum on the
day? Is there anything that sort of
stands out to you? It depends really. I
really adopted this as like a take my
trade, get out of the market, be done
for the day. And I really do adopt that
mindset. I think the reality is is once
you start to trade bigger size, you
realize that like leaving this move to
here is 20K, but this move to here is
100K, you do start to kick yourself a
little bit because we're humans and we
have emotions and it's like, wow, I
could take five of these trades or I
could have just held this one.
Statistically, I've also like held
trades out to lows of day and then got
front run and I'm like round tripping my
trade. Yeah. So like over time I've just
realized that statistically if we're
going to return it's 50%. If we blast
through it then I'll just I'll put my
stop loss at 50%. I'm that was what I
was going to take for the day. And if if
it runs into this extreme, great, you
know, but you can't you can't play for
those 2% those minus 2% or plus 2% days.
Yeah. Because okay, it's great that
we've had a week and a half of
backto-back minus one minus 2% days, but
it's very very, you know, irregular. We
typically have plus 0.7 days or a minus
3 0.3% day. It's like if you play for
those extremes every single day, yeah,
you are going to get chopped up. If you
play for the range every day, you're
going to get your base hit most of the
time. Maybe not every day, every other
day. Maybe three days out of five, maybe
four days out of five. Um, but
technically, this is the area that price
trades the reverses from the most. Um,
but that does, like I said, doesn't mean
that I don't sometimes stay in for here
and trail this aggressively. when we
have those, you know, monstrous drops
because someone speaks about tariffs or,
you know, suddenly China decide to
return tariffs and we drop a percent on
ENQ, it's like, okay, well, this is
going to continue. It should just fall
through here. I can just trail my stop
loss to here and if it comes back, I'm
wrong. And sometimes that stops me out
and then dies. Sometimes it stops me out
and then rallies. I'm I I don't get to
control that. So, all I can control is,
okay, I've made this much money. I'm
locking that in. Whatever happens
happens. If we continue, we continue.
I'll just consistently look to trail
that. Yeah. Or I'm happy with that and
I'll come look at this at 4:00 when the
market's about to close and I'll see
where we are. Yeah. You know, it's I'm a
big believer and, you know, advocate of
everybody wants to be a trader to work
less. Yes. Sits at their charts for 13
hours a day and it's like and they're
working more. You're working more,
losing more and it's just mentally
exhausting, you know. Um, so yeah. So
that's kind of what I look for. Like I
said, there are pros and cons to it. The
cons are that it is a risky Yeah, it's a
risky setup and it requires a lot of
patience and that is probably the number
one thing that 95% of people really
really lack in this market. They open
the chart as soon as they wake up.
That's right. I had the cons for the
people. Yep.
100%. Like I think not only the patience
but because it's shorter term trading uh
a lot of people assume that you don't
need the patience, right? Because that's
for swing traders, that's for the
position. Oh, I wrote this the wrong
way. It still requires patience to let
as you say the model to play out and
present itself first. Let's take a break
for a minute there guys because I want
to tell you about our preferred prop
firm Apex Trader Funding. Now Apex is no
stranger to the podcast or even chart
fanatics because we've done two
incredible episode with two record
holders in terms of trader Kane who got
a record payout at $2.3 million at Apex.
And then beating that record in the end
was Jadecap aka Kyle, who also then has
a record payout now of over $2.5 million
in a single payout with Apex. And that
really just shows the infinite
possibilities you can achieve at Apex
Trader Funding. Now, what traders love
about Apex is that you can get up to 20
accounts. So whether you get the 25K
account ranging all the way up to the
300K account, you can get 20 of those.
So, if it's 20 300k accounts, that is 6
million in tradable capital, which is
absolutely incredible. Not only that,
it's only a one-phase evaluation.
There's no daily draw down and up to
$25,000 per account. It's 100% yours and
after that, it's a 90% split in your
favor. That's right. At Apex, you can
actually trade with Wealth Charts,
Traderate, and Ninja Trader. So, you can
choose your favorite trading platform.
And not only that, you will actually get
realtime data included when purchasing
your evaluation with Apex. What I
personally love about Apex is that as
long as you're trading your day-to-day
strategy, you don't have to worry about
trading the news. You can actually
request your payouts every 8 days, and
there's actually no cap to your max
payout, which really shows the infinite
possibilities you can have at Apex.
Thanks to Chart fanatics, you can get
the best offer available at Apex. They
are always running sales. So, make sure
to use the code CF. That will
automatically give you the best offer
available at Apex. The link for Apex
Trader funding is in the description
below. So, click that link, use the code
CF, and you will get the best offer
available. Become an Apex trader today.
Now, let's get back to the episode. This
is it's a riskier trade because it's a
reversal and price typically as we can
you know open the ENQ chart you can see
when it runs it runs you know we're up
nearly 50% from co lows probably more
actually when it runs it runs and
typically if you try and catch a
reversal on a very bullish asset
historically it's it's you know it's
dumb many many would argue at least um
it's risky um it requires a lot of
patience so would you say most of your
trades even though ENQ has been quite
bullish over you the last year. Um
you're still looking at sells. Yeah, I'm
been because ultimately if price is
going to continue higher, it redelivers
into that's where that 50% thing come
because even if it's going to go long,
you're just getting that that base hit.
Uh yeah. And some days like price is,
you know, really overextended for like a
week and I will wait for it to come down
to that 50 around that 50% and then I'll
trade the reversal back into the 50% of
the drop. Okay. You know, I'm only I'm
basically trading 50% of the 50%. Mhm.
You know, I'm waiting for the higher
time frame pullback. So that fractal
nature, that fractal nature. Yeah. So it
requires a lot of patience. It's risky.
Um and if managed correctly, you will
have a lot of break even trades. Okay.
Um and that is to combat this. Yes.
Yeah. Yes. That's the only reason. And
people look at this as a negative thing,
which is why I'm putting it in the cons.
Well, I think it's important because a
lot of people would struggle with that.
And if they're not or at least that if
they're not mindful of it, they may not
be as aggressive with their break even
as they should be. So then they end up
taking unnecessary loss after loss. And
in reality, if you manage aggressively
as you're meant to, uh then that allows
obviously for the pros to take place
afterwards. Yeah. Like I I really, you
know, about four months ago, I heard
Pax, a guy that traded the pits,
obviously he said, "You either need to
be right or right out." And I I thought
about it and was like, "That doesn't
really make much sense at the time." And
I was like, "Well, actually, he's right.
like you if you're wrong, you need to be
out of that trade as fast as you can.
You don't want to be in it or waiting or
being emotional about, oh, but I have a
gut feel. The market doesn't care about
your gut feel. It doesn't care what you
think. And you can do that over time.
So, I put this in the cons, but I would
put a green bracket around this because
I actually think that this is most of
the Well, this is what makes it
profitable is by doing it aggressively,
but it's just as you as you say, it's in
the cons because you need to be mindful
of it. You have to know that that's
something you have to accept. Yeah. And
uh for some people it might be hard to
accept but that is is so important.
People that don't do this correctly that
pick up my model will consistently tell
me the model is not profitable. Yes.
Right. And this is where it's like the
model is profitable. You're just not
managing it correctly because you're not
looking you're looking at all the
reasons it could play out and you're not
looking at all the reasons it could not
play out. You know suddenly the this
area of support over here and we can rub
this out is like you're playing that
reversal. This area of support where
price really like did this before going
higher. you're trading it here and then
this is, you know, 50% of this range,
this low and suddenly price picks back
up and you're like, well, that shouldn't
play out. Well, actually, this area of
support is just a basic support and
resistance and you could have been out
of this trade net zero. But a lot of
people don't do that and they're like,
oh, it didn't just getting married to
the buyers. It didn't play out. It's
wrong. The model doesn't work, etc.,
etc. So, the pros of this though are you
can catch high of the day. High uh/ low
of the day. Yeah.
Um and you can really catch a monster
trade if managed correctly. It is highly
profitable because but again um it comes
back into this point. It's only
profitable when the break evens are
managed are managed correctly and you
are trading that you the the pros are
the higher time frame alignment and you
can manage that. You can really get into
this trade on a very low time frame.
Yeah.
um time frame.
Would you class this uh strategy and
what we've gone over as sort of rule
based as well? Yeah. Yeah. There are
rules to the there are definitely rules
to the strategy. How much how much would
you say is in terms of mechanical versus
discretion in this? I think a robot
could pick up the model and with the
right if I could really if I sat down
and wrote the logic out correctly, it
could be quite man mechanical. The
reality is is that I think the
discretion is my edge. Like that is just
part of it, right? And everybody that
like I've ever taught or will ever
teach, the first thing I say to them
is this is going to really suck because
I can't teach my intuition. And part of
my edge is my intuition. But I can teach
you the model and help you learn the
intuition over times. But the only way
you can do that is through the reps.
Yeah. Yeah. Reps is the most important.
The reps. One thing I will ask in terms
of this model, is it purely obviously
you're trading it on NQ. Um, but is have
you had traders or anyone that you know
who's taken that model and used it
elsewhere as well? I traded a bitcoin
short from 100k to to literally to 80k
for this exact so you could say I don't
know if the right term is fractal but it
is something that can be applied
elsewhere as well multiasset like
because ultimately I like I said I
subscribe to market maker theory the
market just across the board from a
liquidity standpoint means that price
should always be offered at fair value
which means it should be distributed
into 50% of the range yes and omally
that doesn't mean that price doesn't
can't can't just suddenly go 50% of the
range it could just trade all the way to
very close to the new low and then
redeliver into 50% of the range, right?
And we've seen that, you know, like euro
euro USD for example, it trades, you
know, sits in this range forever, breaks
out, everyone's thinking it's going to
the range low and then it just returns
to the range EQ and it's like, okay,
what do you do? You just not sit in that
trade and wait for the EQ. Okay, you
probably look for a fractal range inside
of there that you then look to trade.
So, the pros for me, right, are you can
manage the train the the the trade on
the it's basically multiple time frame,
but it's fractal. You can get into a low
time frame trade. There's a con to that
is that it's more risky. Yeah, you can
get into a higher time frame trade.
They're higher probability, but again,
they're wider. So, they're more swing
trades, right? You can't trade them on
more futures assets. It's more um like
lowle leverage products um that you
would look to trade. Um so, it's
multiple multiple time frame. Um so, it
suits both traders. Some traders I get
come to me and go, I got a real job. I
don't you know, I can't be at the market
all time every day. Well, the model
works on a higher time frame. I took a
Bitcoin short based on the daily
literally the daily chart. I didn't look
at anything else just the daily chart
and I took that and it ran minus 20%.
You know so if you necessarily can't be
active during that time window because
of the fractual nature of it is still
not a problem. You just take that
viewpoint higher. Yeah. And therefore
able to swing trade/position trade.
Correct. Yeah. Ultimately like I said I
subscribe to market maker theory. I
really believe that the market just
delivers into 50% of ranges and and
redelivers into a 50% of another range.
And sometimes that won't hold and it
will just go lower and it's a higher
time frame range all the way on the
left. Right? I built a model around just
grabbing that 50% to 50%. And that's all
I need. And if I do that on a lower time
frame, I can look for a trade most days.
Not every day is a trading day, of
course, just like everybody. But I can
look for that trade most days. And if
it's managed correctly, I will most
likely get at minimum a break even trade
or some sort of profit. And if price is
very, you know, I'm grabbing that
reversal based on that confirmation and
price just reruns the high, it'll be a
loss. But statistically over time it's
profitable. And that's, you know, you
only get that from doing the reps like
we said. Yeah. I love that. And in terms
of um off the back of that, what would
you look for entry- wise? Is that a
confirmation based entry that you look
for or Yeah. So I look for uh because
I'm trading the indices. The indices are
very, you know, they're very well
aligned. So if if ES let's just use ES
for red um ES is red, NQ is green. If NQ
does this, right? Mhm. ES should
also do this, right? They may not look
completely like in terms of you know
this one's a bit lower, but they took
the same low. For me, this is a well
delivered market, okay? Right. I don't
like this. I look for the divergences
between the two because it shows
relative weakness on a single asset.
Right. Okay. So, and we and we can go I
can actually show you an example about
this.
Um I can show you the exact example and
we'll draw the entire chart is that um
ENQ rallied again this is say this is
9:00 a.m. This is 10. Yeah. And
then trades lower, trades higher and
then does this and then trades into
around 50% of that range. Okay. But at
this specific
point, ES does this.
Okay. So ES runs this existing high. So
then that happening, that divergence is
then telling you the the weakness on ENQ
is much stronger than ES at that time.
Yeah. So I I care more about this chart
from a volume perspective because this
chart has the most volume. It's the most
traded asset in the world other than
bonds, right? So if this is going to
just do this,
it can do that. And this could just do
this as well,
right? It's getting very uh very
crowded. I love it. So it could just do
that. Mhm. I my invalidation for this is
that why because this shouldn't then go
on to break this high. Yeah. This
should continue below here. Okay. Right.
And this is what I'm looking for again.
50% of this around there. Yeah. Right.
I'm looking for that. And then I'm
looking for a breakdown in and
around this area. Okay. more so this
area because it's the wick on the hourly
time frame. Yeah. I want to be
positioned in this wick. Well, obviously
this doesn't look like that, but you get
the point, right? I want to be
positioned in here in any capacity. So,
with that in mind, I more or less just
look for an imbalance in here that has
impulsed higher. Mhm. Right. And then I
want to look for an entry once we once
this SMT SMT divergence again call it
what you want. It's just a cracking
correlation. Um trades below this level.
I will either limit a re a retap into
this area or I'll sell stop this with my
invalidation here targeting 50% of this.
Yes, there are other things that I could
that I use to have higher time frame
targets or actually we're most likely to
trade into the low. But the basis of
what I teach is this, right? Because you
like I keep saying, you only need this
move from here to here. You don't need
from here to here. You don't need that.
And most of the time, this is just a
motion hoping this plays out. you know,
it's not doesn't have the logic of it
continuing higher. And like I said, keep
we'll keep saying it. Everybody will
look at why it wants to play out over
here and not look at this as the reason
why it won't play out. Um, so yeah. So
ultimately, just to confirm, right? Mhm.
Divergence, a uh a weakness in market
structure. Yeah.
In this in this example, it's an
inversion. Yep.
And an inversion is just a previous gap
that should be used as support gets
traded below and used as resistance and
used as resistance. Beautiful. Yeah.
Yeah. And then um and then just this is
basically everything.
Higher time frame pre higher time frame
premium discount that H4 PO3. So higher
time frame
uh P3. Yeah. So in this instance it
would be
the the daily plus the H4. Yeah. Yeah.
And then at that point my trade would be
entry
uh at
inversion. Oh, my handwriting is awful.
No, it's great. At inversion and then uh
my stop loss.
Oh, that was
awful. At uh divergence.
Yeah. Oh, yeah. At divergence. Um and
then my my TP is just um%
50%. Love that. Would you say uh one
maybe not a con but something to be
aware of? Do you think it takes certain
adjustments for some people if they
haven't been maybe utilizing you the
fractal nature of the markets and that
higher time frame sort of viewpoint? So,
for example, in this case, the P3 from
daily 4hour, obviously still looking at
POV um POV P3, sorry, for the H1. Y um
do you feel like sometimes people have
to get used to being able to see the
market in that way by keeping still
keeping in mind the the daily when
they're on the H1, for example, and the
4 hour? Yeah, I always advise people to
to where do you if you had to tell me
right now where you want to see price
manipulate into on the daily chart,
where would that be? Mark it out. Just
create your little box. Now do the H4.
Now do the H1. And now just create a box
where they all align and figure out that
that's where you want to see it
manipulate. You need logic for doing
that. The logic for me is the range,
right? That range. And it's
understanding there are obviously there
are some other confluences like I say
that you that I use to say okay we might
trade a little bit further than the 50%
of the range. It might be 60%. It might
be 58%. I don't look at it that way.
It's just 50% zero 100. Once we're above
50, I'm looking at that breakdown from
there because that's where I'm looking
at that. And then I fractalize that from
a okay, well, if the H4 candle frames in
here, I want to see a push above the
previous H4 candle. And that H4 candle
has four 1 hour candles. So, I want to
wait for that push above and that break
down. So, then you're trading the H1 PO3
inside of a H4 P3 inside of a daily P3.
And if you combine them, you can get
much larger targets. Why? because the
daily P3 should technically that's the
high of the day it should technically go
to the low but for most people this is
enough if you want to swing trade and do
all that you have to really really
understand the P3 fractility very well
do you feel like the best way to start
is to start with the base hit yeah over
time build that confidence with that
base hit get the results with that base
hit as you're doing so you will start to
pick up on more of that higher time
frame you'll start to pick up on when
does price actually play out for the
higher time frame over time. But what a
lot of people unfortunately do is just
try and focus on this straight away
before they've even got the base hit
done. Look, I'm a big believer in base
hits, right? Base hits have made me
millions of dollars in the market. Um,
and like I say, if managed correctly,
you can really avoid a lot of silly
losses and get break even days, maybe a
little bit positive days, which for a
lot of people still hits your daily
requirement for most prop firms for
payouts, etc., etc. Everyone would like
to trade the high and the low of the
candle. Yeah. If you could do that, you
would be a trillionaire, right? So, the
reality is you can't do that. And you
may catch it once in a blue moon or once
a month or twice a week. I don't know.
Or not twice a week, twice a month, you
know, twice a week, you're probably
still a billionaire. You may be able to
do that, but over time, if you
consistently look for that, you'll take
a lot of losers. So, it's better to have
a set of rules that say, "This is where
I want to see price trade to." And if
price is really, you know, moving or
hey, the volume is insane here, hey,
trail your trail your stop loss, move
your TP target to the extreme and
aggressively trail that stop loss. And
who knows, you might get 20 30% more
profit. But don't be upset that it
didn't hit the extreme because it's
still past your POI that you should be
out at. Yeah. Yeah. And that's your line
in the sand. We go there for any reason,
you're out. You want to see it really
fall through. Again, to to quote Pax,
you want to be right or right out. Yeah.
So, but yeah, this is what I look for.
And then like I say, you fractalize this
and say this is the, you know, this is
the daily open. You just imagine that
the H4 opens the same way. You want to
see the exact same thing. The hourly
opens the same way. You want to see the
exact same thing trading above that
previous hour, that previous day, that
previous 4hour candle because when they
all align and it's the 4hour wick inside
of a daily wick inside of an hourly
wick, when that next hourly candle
opens, bang, it will just fly. Um, so
yeah, let's take a break for a minute
there, guys, because I want to tell you
about our incredible sponsor,
Tradezeller. Tradezella is the number
one trading tool in the entire trading
industry. Tradezella allows you to
become a more profitable trader. Allows
you to make immense progress as a
trader, no matter if you're a beginner
or an advanced level trader, because it
makes journaling easy. It makes
journaling something that is fun and
enjoyable and something that is
interactive. So, no matter if you're a
crypto trader, no matter if you're a
futures trader, no matter if you're a
forex trader, no matter if you're a
stock trader, all you have to do is
select your broker, your platform of
choice, and connect it to Tradzella, and
it will automatically sync your trades
and pull all of that data onto the
dashboard, making journaling and finding
your edge and adapting your edge so
easy. In collaboration with Tradzella
and Chart Fanatic specifically, we are
actually getting the playbooks from the
episodes that we're filming with these
incredible verified traders and adding
them as playbooks onto Tradezella. So,
you can actually go on there and see the
rule sets already predefined. So, make
sure you check that out as well. Now,
you can actually get 10% off your
monthly subscription using CF10 on
Tradella right now. But more
importantly, I would say CF20 for 20%
off your yearly subscription with
Tradezella. The links for Tradzella are
in the description below. So, make sure
you go check them out. Use CF20. Get 20%
off your yearly subscription. Become a
better trader today. Now, let's get back
to the episode. Love that. Hola. Let's
take a look at the charts now. Um, now
that we've done all the the visuals and
explainer, I'm sure people are excited
for that. So, we're in the chart now.
When I when I approach the chart, I will
go on the daily time frame like we just
discussed that daily that daily fractal
P3. I will mark out the current high,
the current low. I will see that since
trading into this low, we failed to
trade we failed to trade into 50% of
this existing range. Yeah. And then from
a again a much much higher time frame
perspective.
Um
sorry, this is the high. Yeah, there is
uh no leave it. Um we are currently in a
much higher time frame 50%. Mhm. Yep. So
right now typically I am looking for
some sort of reversal from here up to
here. Okay. Right. So from a now we you
know taking off the whiteboard onto the
chart. Yeah. Overall, I'm waiting for
some sort of reversal characteristic on
a daily time frame to then have my bias
that we're looking that we're looking to
trade up into that area. Right? Let's
take these drawings off. So, now we just
drop down to the
H4. Right? And we'll go over a trade
example from yesterday. Right? So, if I
just replay
uh if I just replay this to
yesterday. So, Thursday 10:00 a.m. We'll
do it from
Thursday. Uh this is Wednesday, so we
can just leave it on Wednesday, right?
Um Wednesday 2:00.
I would then go to that 4 hour and then
I would mark out this high. This made a
high. So if we were to mark out all of
the four hours from the drop, right?
Yeah. This was how how it happened. We
didn't we failed to distribute into EQ.
We then make a new low. So this then
just becomes this. We failed to
distribute into EQ. So this becomes a
new low. So you can see that we've built
up an engineered liquidity around that
resting EQ now. Yeah. So this is the
overall 4hour r that that daily range.
Sorry. So then from that 4hour
perspective when we make a new low when
we consistently do this and we just make
a high, make a low, make a high, make a
low, what it's delivering in is to 50%
of this. Yes. Yeah. So if we just go
ahead and mark those out, right? So from
this just put the magnet back on. If we
deliver from here to here, you'll notice
50% some sort of higher time frame sweep
that 4hour PO3 is in here. Yeah. You can
see that with the 4our candles next to
it. sort of the range, then the wick,
and then obviously the manipulation, the
distribution. If we just drag this to
the side, yeah, everything we just
discussed is in in here, that 4hour,
that high, that low, 50% of the range,
4hour P3. And then if we fractalize that
again,
H1, I want to trade in here. Oh, and
look, I have an indicator that
automatically prints S&P. So there's
your divergence. There's my divergence.
So at that point I'm looking to trade
this. This is on this is this is on
Monday actually. So again before we've
even gone and I'm just using I'm just
immediately I've just jumped to that
just from drawing this premium discount
range. It's not even the trade we're
going to show. Right. So again here we
failed to we did we fail to distribute
into it? Yeah because we made a new low.
Right. So here Tuesday right again 50%.
Now, what are we looking for? If we
fractalize that premium discount, right,
from here to here, 50%, we trade into
it, that H4 wick, that PO3, you know,
again, we'll just get to the the
Thursday bit, but I'm just showing you
how I mark out premium discounts, right?
So, Thursday,
uh, yeah, this is Thursday at 10. Okay.
So, we have previous day low. Yeah.
Yeah. So, this is, uh, sorry, not
previous day low. This is previous
previous day low and this is um previous
day low. So you got two from Wednesday,
right? So ultimately from from this drop
to here, right? That's the the current
when I'm approaching the chart on
Thursday at
2:00.
Um yeah, at 2:00 I would then go to a
lower time frame. This little gray box
here is just marking out the Asian
range. It's the most lowest probability
conditions. I just mark it out as a when
we sweep one of these areas typically we
reverse from it. Everyone should be
familiar with the Asian range. If not
you can Google it. It's very very very
well documented about what it is. Right.
So this is a similar concept in terms of
like uh building up a range liquidity
either side. Building of the range sweep
reverse and typically this doesn't sweep
it today but it reverses right? What
happens is we end up sweeping that. We
get that divergence at 2 o'clock, which
is what the 2 am EST, which is when I
consider a London open. Yeah. ES sweeps
that because of this little red line
that prints. It sweeps it and then it
reverses. So, this is a good example of
accumulation, manipulation, distribution
to the downside, right? I'm not trading
this because it's low probability
conditions for me, right? So, where is
price most likely going to end up based
on this and this? Mhm. We can also just
mark out because we would also mark out
the hourly. I can I can tell you that
this is the hourly range. So if we mark
out this low
uh right I refer to this as the logical
liquidity target which is basically if
we're marking a premium discount range
is the first high or low in thatif that
50% drop. Right? So I want to see price
trade into that area. Once we hit that
area, overall I'm waiting for price to
show a characteristic for us to reverse.
And ultimately, what I'm looking for is
I'm looking for that characteristic to
form. Right? Do we get
something? What's the time? Let's just
mark this
out. Again, this will just consistently
move until we hit that 50% of that of
that range. Right? Do we get it? Do we
get it? Nope. We just keep going lower.
Right? Again, some people would draw it
from here, the premium discount from
here to here. But because ES actually
took the high here, in my head, this
high right here is the high. Okay. Yeah.
So, I don't care that this is the high
or I don't care about this one. I care
about this is because this at 2:00,
that's where you use that swept that
liquidity. Where I use that divergence
because in my head from a logical
perspective, I'm treating this as that
this liquidity has been swept and we
should not return there. Okay. So, that
is the new dealing range. Premium
discount range that I want to see,
right? So, we've traded way into
discount, right? Or premium if you're
well, it's discount because it's 50%
lower. Right. And then what I'm waiting
for is I'm waiting
for we frant ran previous day low. Yeah.
Right. So, to me, this is just
engineered liquidity. Yeah. We're now
inside of premium premium, right? We've
got that 10 a.m., right? So, if we mark
out the previous 9:00 a.m. high, which
is right here, that's our hourly PO3.
So, right now, this is the area that I
want to see price manipulate into and
trade away. But, we're skipping
something. So, what is that? That is the
the daily. Did we take a previous day
high? No. I'm still expecting to trade
into some sort of low, right? And then
if we go on to the 4 hour, and again,
it's probably just going to skip
forward, but we mark out that previous
4hour high. And then if we go back to
the hourly, that previous 4hour high is
resting just around the EQ. Yeah. Right.
And then what I would do is I would say,
okay, we've hit that hourly high at 9 at
10:00 a.m. Right. Now, what I want to
see is I want to see price breakdown.
This is the hour. This is the hourly P3.
What I'm looking for, right? Yeah.
Hourly P3. That is aligning with the H4
P3. Yeah.
Yeah. This is at 10. So, right now, we
also have our eye on 10 a.m. high. So,
as we approach into that 11:00 area, so
this is 10:30. So, we can just keep
moving this. There's no confirmation
breakdown right now, right?
Okay, we trade
lower. The H4 PO3 is looking good. But
in five minutes time, because I'm
looking at the bottom of my screen right
now down here, in five minutes time,
this candle is 1055. In 5 minutes time,
if I look at this, do I want to see a
reversal from here or do I want to see
this high
taken? Most most of the time I want to
see this high taken. Okay,
but I would wait for some sort of
confirmation here, right? So, I would
wait. I would typically drop to a lower
time frame at this point once this SMT
prints because it's it will show you a
dotted line because it's saying the ES
is trading above this high. Okay, we
have dual SMT so or dual divergence
which means there's divergence at the
lows and divergences at the high which
means the range is getting tighter. And
now what I would look for is I would
look for this inversion that's that
either to hold Yeah. or us to take the
high follow through and then trade back
through this inversion and my trade
would look like this. Right? So at this
point you would have a sell stop. So at
this point I would have I would be
anticipating and again this is again due
to my intuition is I'd be anticipating
that this high would would hold right
again SMT SMT at the low to to here.
This would be my logical liquidity
target. And again, a lot of people are
going to not really like this, but this
trade isn't the sexiest of trades,
right? Again, this is what I would look
for right now. This is what my sell stop
would look like, right? Anticipating
that if we reverse from here, this this
will confirm the divergence between
these two. Yeah. Right. What happens?
I'm in this trade now. And at that
point, this will now be my stop loss.
Okay. Right. And then price will you get
you get a chance to enter because price
trades and we can just zoom in. Price
trades closes below the inversion right
here. You get to enter here and you get
to enter here. Right? So this is right
now we are entering inside of that 4hour
wick. Right? Because this is the
previous 4hour high and we're still in
that 4hour candle. We don't get a new
4hour candle until 2 o'clock. Right? So,
we're entering inside of that 4hour
wick. And also, you have to remember
where did 11:00 open up? Right here. We
are also entering inside of that hourly
wick. Yes. Right. So, the H4 previous
4hour high and the new hourly candle
opened. This this as of right now is
um is the area that I would want to want
to go break even, right? Because this
hourly candle just flipped bearish and
that's just really showcasing the
aggressiveness of that. Correct. Even
Yeah. I mean, this is not even ran.
This has just ran one R. It's just
purely coincidental that it's 1 R. Yeah.
It's I don't care that it's 1 R. I just
care that this hourly candle was flip
break even. Uh slip bearish. Sorry. It's
hard to show that with trading view
replay mode. So, it's a bit difficult.
Right. So, but if you envisage that,
let's just drag this out of the way. The
11:00 a.m. candle opened here. Yeah. And
this is where it it opened. And now this
is what the candle looks like. This is
the wick. This is the body. Right. So
this would be my trade and I would be
out. Right. And omally I get out of this
low. Yeah. I can tell you what happened.
Trump tweeted about tariffs. Uh tariffs
pausing. Yeah. Right. Um but if you
missed this trade for any reason, would
you enter here now? No. because it hit
discount and ultimately we're
anticipating the high. The reality is I
closed my trade right here.
I don't care about this. Yes. Because if
I for whatever reason was break even
here and I was aiming for this low, I
would have got stopped out and then the
move went went against me. Yeah. So I
would have missed out on Okay. A
monstrous move,
but I still caught 381 ticks on one
contract. That's quite a lot of money,
right? 381 times five. I'm bad at math.
We know that, right? It's a lot of
money, right? I'm trading more than one
contract. That is enough for a good
amount of time. And and again, we can
show you my trade seller in a minute for
the trade that I took there and and how
much that uh how much that looks like,
right? So ultimately, and that is that
that is the trade from uh from Thursday.
So fits that 4hour hourly P3. Yeah.
trading it back to discount and I'm
done. This trade this trade runs like
really really runs like you know I could
I could have stayed in this pretty much
all day until the close. You know the
closes all the way over here. Mhm. All I
need is this tiny little move in the
market waiting and waiting. I could have
tried to long the bottom here, here,
here, here, here. I could have shorted
once we just trade above this high. No
confirmation. And this could have ran
all the way up here. Yeah, just like it
ran all the way down here before trading
higher, right? I don't I don't like to
enter around the open as much as
possible. I entered twice this week and
I took two losers around the open. So on
this specific day, I avoided this move.
Okay. And also there's no confirmation.
This is if you could rate it out of 10,
this is a 12 plus. This is a 12 setup.
It's the best ever. SMT 4hour high
trading above into discount with that
inversion straight into discount and if
you really wanted to get back in you
could. I would never ever advise anyone
to do it especially after something
driven like Trump tweeting about
tariffs. It could have just gone
skyhigh. You know, we got we got a
monstrous run over here because of some
tariff tweet and it was just like the
thing is by doing the base hits over and
over for the time that you do then feel
the intuition, you feel the market's in
the right place and you decide to hold,
you've already banked a buffer to do
that. Exactly. You know, once Yeah,
exactly. Once you've done the reps
enough time, it's like, hey, I actually
know that this is or I have a gut
feeling it's going to play out. I've
made a bunch of money. I can take a bit
more of a risk. That is purely purely
intuition. It's not it's not anything of
like okay there's some confirmational
factors there but it's betting on your
your draw more often than not this is
purely just the model the low as you
said that that's more than enough to
make a good income and it might not be
where you start you might start with
micros you might start with a smaller
capital but it's a through focusing on
the the process and focusing on uh the
strategy and sticking to it and getting
those basics in that's the only way to
scale right you have to start somewhere
and build up that repetitions, build up
their repetitions, and then that's the
only way really to scale. Let's take a
break for a minute though, guys, cuz I
want to tell you about our incredible
partnership with
propfirmtrader.com. Majority of you out
there are prop firm traders. You're
using prop firms to leverage your
trading skills to be able to get more
capital and to be able to absolutely
change your life. So, what's important
to you to be able to find the right
challenge for you with the best firms
and most of all the best prices. And
that is exactly what propertrader.com
does. propertrader.coms allows you to
compare prop firms, be able to find the
best challenge suited to your trading
style, and get you the exclusive best
discounts in the entire industry so that
you're paying the cheapest price
possible for your prop firm challenge.
So on proper.com, you'll be able to use
filters to be able to do that and find
the exact challenge for you, be able to
find your favorite prop firms. On the
futures side, we have the biggest
futures firm in the entire industry with
Apex Trader funding, giving us the best
discount possible. Right now, it's
actually 80% off using the code PFT. On
the CFD side, on Forex side, we actually
have a brokerbacked prop firm called
Atmos Funded, backed by Torex, and they
are giving an exclusive offer at 50% off
all challenges again using the code PFT.
So, make sure you go do that. And not
only that, another exclusive offer only
on Propirm Trader is with Bright Funded.
Bright Funded are giving up to 30% off
all challenges and a free account of the
same size on your first payout. And on
top of that, you can get an exclusive
offer only on propertrader.com with
Alpha Capital on their one-step
challenge, 25% off using
PFT1. So, make sure you go and do that.
And there's so many more exclusive
discounts only on
propertrader.com. It is the go-to site
for all proper traders out there. And
one thing I'm really excited about that
I personally helped to organize was the
giveaway of giveaways, the 7figure
giveaway just through purchasing your
challenges for the best price through
propertrader.com. Every single week, you
will automatically be entered into an
incredible giveaway, a collaborative
effort across all of these firms on
screen between 100 to 200k accounts over
seven figures. It means that one person
every single week who's made a purchase
through
proper.com will be getting seven figures
in challenges that could completely
revolutionize your trading journey.
Again, all you do is for any of the
firms on
propertrader.com, use the code PFT at
checkout and you will automatically be
entered every single week. The link for
propertrader.com is in the description
below. Now, let's get back to the
episode. Yeah, but even if you took this
with one micro, it's 200 bucks, you
know? Is that it's not in a day, right?
In a day. Like in a day, if you want to
class the actual time, let's just say
it's a day, right? because it's you
waited around, you were patient, you did
all those things. You you made 200
bucks. Like where can you make 200 bucks
by clicking a button and being a bit
patient and practicing all of those
things? It's really hard to just get
that out of nowhere. So a lot of people
go and work a very manual labor job for
12 hours a day, 10 hours, 9 hours a day,
whatever to make that money. We do it
and okay, fine. You may have some losers
occasionally on the days, but over time
you're going to make more than 190 bucks
over time because you take one trade,
you take two true two trades that scales
and scales and scales, then suddenly
you're making, you know, daily wages in
minutes and weekly wages in hours, you
know. So, um, and then also, so this is
obviously around the open. So, uh, I'm
just going to remove all my drawings
again. So, that was that trade. And then
on Monday, I actually took a a long uh,
no, no, I didn't actually. That's a lie.
Okay. So, we get a drop at Monday at
9:30. We get a drop and then we get that
push up into discount here. Right.
Again, we just did the daily and the
4hour the fractility. But this is the
9:30 drop. Big build up throughout Asia.
We have a big drop here. This is really
showing that Asia side now where we've
taken the high then we could target the
low as well. Took the high, target the
low. Yeah. So, if we just mark out this
to here. Yeah. Aiming for that 50%. 50%
pull back into 50% to then trade lower
and then the Asia low sits above that
50% as well. Exactly. Yeah. So, um
again, I'm just going to We obviously
know how that plays out
because so again, right, so a lot of
people could just take this inversion
right here, right? Like I said, 50% that
breakdown. What we're really missing is
the key piece sometimes is that that
divergence, right? So, if we break this
down, H4 trade above the high. This is
the H4 PO3. The daily P3 looks like
this. We're trading above that daily
high. Yeah. We're trading above that
that 4hour resting high. Yeah. And if we
go to that hourly, it happened at 9:30.
We manipulated higher and then traded
lower again. I know some people that
caught this trade from a very low time
frame perspective where you know they
sell stop like this inversion with this
being some sort of SMT and they sell
stop it and they get into it and it and
it falls off. We can't catch those every
day and I didn't personally catch it.
Right. So based on this this 5 minute
I'm waiting for that SMT to form. Yes.
Right. And it's at 3
minute. Right.
waiting for it to form and as soon as we
close back
below with that
SMT.
Yeah. All I'm looking for is the first
low inside of that discount. I wouldn't
necessarily include this. This trade is
definitely not the sexiest of trades.
It's 1.26, right? But it happens more or
less straight away.
ah this was actually the one that I got
stopped on and then I re and I
re-entered over here because we got
again we get that confirmation of SMT
and that happens sometimes right and
based on that it's just it is just the
laws of probabilities right I would
always just leave this because it's so
such a low risk-to-reward trade I would
always just wait it out and then with
the second trade
uh I would sell stop this bas area
because my bias doesn't change the only
way that this changes is If we continue
higher, right? And I would take I would
always take two. You got SMT then off
the back of that as well. Yeah. Because
this this was SMT. Yeah. Yeah. And then
this went on to create SMT again, right?
With NQ taking the high and ES failing,
right? And then I would just sell stop
this this trade at this point because of
my risk-to-reward and I got stopped. I
would just a I would aim for a larger
target. But more or less because it's on
the three minute, as soon as we take out
the 15minute low, yes, I would just be
break even. Okay. Right. So as soon as
we take this low on this, I'm now break
even. My risk is nothing. I'm not
risking anything. If I now get stopped
to break even on the day, my
risk-to-reward is nothing. And that was
that. And that was it. And I walked away
with a loser on the day. You know, not
every day can be a winner. Um, and we
can go from there. That is the the the
trade. And then again in the PM session,
and we'll come on to it. Again, in the
PM session, I did a I joined a stream
with a one of my one of my friends, a
guy that I, you know, I trade with
sometimes in terms of I check in on his
content. He does a PM session every
single day. Um, and then later on at
like 2:00 with that H4 PO3 again, uh, we
took another short and I literally
finished just above break even on the
day on Monday, actually. No, it was
quite That's a lie. It was quite a big
day. That's a lie. That's a straight up
lie. Um but we can go into the trades
report. There are quite a bit of break
even trades in there and we can again we
can we can show that and there are also
some losers right but the the number one
thing is that I that I always wanted to
highlight by coming here and having this
is that if we just respect 50% of the
ranges and the ranges are marked out
correctly. Yeah. We can really really
really manage our risk. You know I would
always take this trade with this SMT. We
don't trade into 50%. Well, we trade
into 50% here, but because of that, this
is the first low in discount. I would
never ever go break even on this trade
because it's bad or um and I would just
accept my risk. Yeah. And then I would
always know that I will get another shot
at it or I'll be wrong and I'll walk
away, you know. So, I love that. It's
great to highlight as well. Yeah. And um
just before we move on to the trades a
bit, could I just ask in
ter chart? Could we just see the P on
the daily? Okay. So, the Bitcoin, it's
actually already on my chart, right? So,
okay, beautiful. So, this is just a very
higher time frame. It's funny because I
actually tweeted at Casper about he was
like, "Give me a give me a fair value
gap. Please make it work." So, I uh I
actually had that on. So, you can see
this is the I can just come out of
replay mode so we know that it's up to
date. So, here I I used the divergence
for um for ETH, right? So, this is
actually just a weekly PO3. I'm trying
to trade that that weekly wick, right? I
don't get an entry in here in this wick.
And then what I'm looking for is that
daily imbalance with that SMT to be
traded through, right? Yes. And then
basically what happens is we trade
through it. It's a fractal. I'm short,
right? And just for everybody, there's a
tweet all the way over
here. The day I got short, bare market
confirmed. It's over, losers. Be happy.
be sad you bought more. Right? And
that's obviously timestamped. You know,
I can't move that. That's literally the
day that I got short on that. And that
is that SMT. We can get rid of this
because we didn't go over that. It's
that daily imbalance. And then I'm
looking for that 50% of that range. This
is a weekly imbalance, right? So, I
wanted a good reaction out of here.
Again, this is this this trade took a
while, right? It's a more of a swing
trade. It did take a while. Yeah. Yeah.
Consolidated for a while. This trade
took, you know, took nearly a month to
play out. I was in it for a while. Paid
quite a bit in fees as well because at
some point the funding switch. So, um,
yeah, ultimately it took a while, but
it's my model to a te that divergence.
You could have tighter risk. I don't
really need that cuz I'm happy with this
risk-to-reward. I'm happy with two 2.25.
How are you in terms of um you going
from like really speedy scalp trades to
then holding this sort of trade? Is it
more was it any anything or was it more
so because you know the model got all
those reps you just let the model play
out. It's a mixture of things, right? I
would I love to trade NQ on a higher
time frame. Yeah. The margin
requirements to do that are silly. So
like the leveraged opportunities to day
trade and intraday trade uh indices and
specifically in my case NQ are are
really beneficial, right? So, I have to
get in I have to frame those lower time
frame trades because I have to get in
and out of the market within the same
day. Yeah. Or I have to have millions of
dollars in the account to to fund a
margin requirement to hold that. Um,
with this, I don't need that. I can
trade this all day every day because the
market is open all of the time. And the
margin requirements are the same no
matter what time or day. So, I would I
would like to swing trade ENQ a bit
more. I don't because I want to if I'm
going to trade a regulated asset, I want
to trade it on a regulated broker. Yes,
of course. With crypto, it's a bit more
risky, as we know, and as people will
know, I've been burned with this a few
times, but this was like almost too good
to pass up on. You know, we dropped so
heavily and then bought back and it's
just like, okay, well, maybe we go to
the high. My risk is my risk and it is
is what it is. And, you know, was there
a po a part where you went break even
here or or adjust the stop? I actually
never moved this trade. I just left it
and because it was just like a I didn't
even look at it, you know. It was like a
I would check up on it every couple of
days. Oh, we're up this much. We're up
that much. Oh, I could move a break
even. But it's just like especially the
last couple of weeks. Yeah. The Trump
tweets, the crypto tweets, you know,
it's hard to keep up. Yeah. It's hard to
keep up. Like we we we drop and then
suddenly they announce American crypto
reserve and it pumps 10%. And it's like
at that point I was already out of the
trade but ultimately I was I was really
wanting to see this and I you know
people ask me do you think Bitcoin is a
good buy right here? I don't know
because there's a lot to go after right
but all I know is right here. Oh right
here this was the area that I want to
see NQ trade
into up here. create that SMT that
stalling that side that floating
sideways action a drop and then if we
continue higher great if we don't great
you say did you mean Bitcoin you said
ENQ sorry yeah I meant meant Bitcoin
yeah too much ENQ on too much ENQ yeah
but that divergence in this case you
said was ETH right with ETH yeah within
Ethereum but Ethereum's very weak right
so it's again like there's divergence at
the bottom here and there was
divergences along here which I I knew
and I accepted that my bias was lower
overall with indices and just in general
the market. Yes. Yeah. You know, and and
we've seen over the recent weeks the
market has heavily heavily corrected.
So, yeah. Well, let's let's finish up
with the Tradzella stat. Yeah. We'll
show you the overall uh stats on Trade
Zella. Okay. So, this is the the Trade
Zella dashboard. Uh we'll just reync it.
So, there's no, you know, reason. As you
can see here that it's a a Ninja Trader
account. The balance shows here as as
26,988. Um, and if we go to the
dashboard, um, you'll see that the P&L
is
26,988. Um, it is a it was a 25k
deposit. Um, for those that don't know,
I recently announced a a partnership and
a basically a live trading program with
Ninja. So, Ninja, my my broker of
choice, I guess now. Um, and normally I
deposited 25K and they trad the the
autosync feature. So, we can just sync
all of the trades. Um, and then it will
just show the statistics. So over the
period of the week, you know, relatively
low trading volume because obviously
these count as in and out, in and out,
in and out. Um, and as you can see, my
win rate is 50% 50% 85 83, right? And
this is just this week. There is
obviously last week as well. Um, it's
just very low week. I was trying to ramp
that up, but as you can see, the
volatility from the the week commencing
2nd of March, volatility is crazy at the
moment. VIX is crazy crazy high. Um, and
these are my statistics, right? the
average win loss because of that break
even rate and I don't mess with the if
it's right now my trades that are
settings are if it's a minus it's
classed as a loss okay so um some of
those break even trades that I get
wicked out on due to volatility do count
as losses and that's just how it is but
overall um you know max draw down
consistency winning rate my winning rate
it says trade winning percentage here
obviously I haven't had a losing day but
that's just because my break even
percentages are so high and that why is
why my average when loss is so low and
then net daily P&L. We obviously had
that spike on on Monday as I was
speaking about in the PM session where
price really ran. But overall it was
just trying to get that nice equity
curve. Yeah. Spir, you know, spiking I
guess to some degree here. Spiked with
that 8K that 8K day. Um and then the
rest of the days are around that 5K 2K.
Again, this was so using those base hits
to build up the capital and then over
time it will start to exponentially grow
as well as when you get those larger
trades that you use that intuition and
have the base hits for. Exactly. this
trade like I said uh like I explained
earlier in in the video sometimes when
price really really moving quite heavy
you can just trail that and trail that
aggressive stop loss and that was what
happened there we trailed it once it hit
around that 10k mark that 10k floating
P&L I trailed it to just under nine um
and literally as soon it just reverse
wicked me out and continued a little bit
and it is what it is I didn't need to
get back into that move or have FOMO
because based on the account performance
8K on you know one day on a 25k account
it's crazy And it's purely down to
volatility. It's not down to anything
else. It's just I'm in the trade at the
right time and price really starts to
move quite heavy and the volume the
volume just picks up and I just trail.
But the reality is I could have got out
of that trade at 3K at 2K at 1K but it's
purely my intuition that allows me to go
this is really moving. It's not slowing
down. So because even though showcasing
the model as you have today, um how
important do you feel it is for traders
whe whether it's your model or any model
that they're learning from someone or
come across? Yeah. How important is it
for them to collect the data to be able
to have the confidence in it? I've said
this loads, right? It's all about the
reps. It's having the confidence that
the the model is profitable over a
period of time. It doesn't need to play
out every day. And sometimes you may
take a loser for back to back. You know,
like my live streams the last couple of
days, I've taken a loser both times.
Yeah. And then, you know, later on in
the day, I've looked at the market and
gone, "Oh, my model's about to appear."
Or I've set alerts and my model has
appeared and I've clicked the button.
And that's just how it is. That's, you
know, the devil of the beast, right? So,
but the average person will probably
stick around on the chart a lot more and
take those silly little trades because
they're they're like the daily, the H4,
or they'll be like, "Oh, we're trading
into that daily POI." and then they'll
be trading a very low time frame
confirmation. It's like, but that could
just pull back and continue. You haven't
got the layers to that. You need that
confirmation of that daily. It's above,
it's above your area on a daily. It's
above your daily your area on a H1. And
doing all of that consistently over, you
know, years of data. Yeah. You know,
couple of times, three, four times
should take you a while. And once you do
that in that repetition, you'll spot it.
You'll be like, "Oh, skipped a step."
Yeah. I took a loser there. I can't skip
that step. Those steps are there for a
reason. And the logic of getting out
getting in and out at 50% of the the the
relative ranges is because the market is
going if it's going to continue, it's
going to continue from there. And if
it's going to continue without it, it's
a loser. Congratulations. It is what it
is. It's part of the game. So putting
those reps in is for me is the most
important thing. And that, you know, is
why I personally use Trazella. And you
know, I know you guys obviously work
with them, but um the journaling stuff
inside of Tradeller allows you to
journal your bad trades. The back
testing stuff, you know, they're one of
the best futures back testing. And
obviously the automatic journaling for
me is the the creme de la creme. I like
to just I guess show off my statistics
or or showcase my statistics. We love
it. They're great stats. But yeah,
they're they're good stats. But who
knows, Tuesday, because I don't really
trade Mondays and Fridays. on Tuesday I
could have a loser and these statistics
look worse of course right this is a
great run so far and it's no period of
data to be you know oh an amazing trader
because I got six seven eight winning
days back to back great I could have
four losers next week but overall I'm
okay with that as long as over a period
of three four five six months the model
the model is profitable and I don't care
about losing short term it's it just is
what it is so well Kane I want to thank
you again for breaking this all down for
us I know that there's so much value and
there so much for people to take away
and drop a comment with your biggest
takeaway from this first initial chart
fanatics episode. So this is our first
of many to come and no better way than
having Kane with us today. The links for
Kane and the lab will be in the
description. So make sure you go check
those out. Hit subscribe and until next
time everyone, it's been Chart forex.
Take care.